Reviewer Report
Reviewer's Comments:
The manuscript "PTFO 8-8695: Two Stars, Two Signals, No Planet" details the author's efforts to discern the origin of the signal around PTFO 8-8695, which has a mixed history as a planet candidate in the literature. The paper focuses on the Gaia and TESS data, which they use to argue this system is a binary showing rotation/dipper-like properties seen in the light curves of numerous similar-aged stars.

I don't share the author's attachment to this object as a planet, and have been skeptical since the Yu et al. 2015 study. I am glad to see such convincing evidence that this is not a planet. Figure 7 makes the point of the paper practically on its own; this object looks `normal' compared to other objects we know about now (but weren't aware of at the time of the PTFO-Orion survey). Given the number of papers on this object (many of which still assume it is a planet), refuting the planetary status of this object is certainly worthy of publication (even with the Koen 2020 study).
I don't have any major comments, but a modest list of smaller ones. None of these will change the fundamental conclusions of the paper, nor should they require extensive analysis; I expect the authors can handle or respond to these easily.

I present them in chronological order.

Overall:
It would help if the authors used hours or days throughout the paper in a consistent manner. The period is referred to as 0.5d and 11.98h just a couple paragraphs apart (e.g. in Section 5.1). The abstract uses hours, most plots use days.

Introduction:
The introduction takes a light/jovial tone, e.g., did they actually wish it were a planet, or is it more that they aimed to confirm it and found the opposite? I would normally suggest making more formal. However, I enjoyed reading it. I'm sorry the authors ruined their own favorite planet.

I do not think this is youngest hot Jupiter. That should be true just for transiting systems, and it was the youngest at discovery, but the two RV planets from ESPaDOnS are younger (Donati et al. 2016 and Yu et al. 2017). Both are hot Jupiters and in Taurus. I believe the age of Tap 26 is more ambiguous due to age spreads (multiple groups?) in Taurus, but the age of V830 Tau is certainly <3 Myr.

I also think it wasn't the first H-alpha detection. That belongs to LkCa15, which was imaged in H-alpha in 2015 (Sallum et al. 2015). Although that planet might not exist, so this comment is probably OK. It would still be the first close-in planet either way. I'd suggest weakening the statement slightly to err on the side of caution.

Barnes et al. (2013) claimed that the planet and star precessed on a period of 300-600 days, and that this could somewhat fit variable depths and missing transits. The Ciardi et al. 2015 paper uses this as their model, in addition to gravity darkening as mentioned in the current introduction. I suggest mentioning the precession of the planet in the introduction, as many papers used the precession model or at least discussed it. The line "...the gravity-darkened star precessed..." seems to allude to this, but it's unclear from the rest of the text.

Section 2:
The first paragraph discusses the full frame images, while the next section discusses the 2m data. Why did the authors use the FFIs when they have the (higher quality) 2m data?


Section 2.2.2:
"These details concerning the group membership for one object may seem excessive to those accustomed to the simple distinction between "young cluster members" and "old field stars"."
I suggest removing this. It's not adding anything and sounds like the authors are making assumptions about the reader. The membership of this object is essential for an age assessment, and can/should be updated given the new Gaia data. Since most of the object class in question are at similar ages, this directly relates to the study. If it had turned out to be ~100 Myr, we would all be more skeptical (although ~100 Myr stars like this are known, they are more rare).


Section 3/4:
This deals mostly with identification of the second star. However, the second star appears to be an assumption of section 3.2. If the periods come from two stars that could be separated (e.g., wide binaries), it would have been best to do so rather than try to model both by including fs and fl terms. So it is odd that the binary search is after the light curve model in the paper. It might make more narrative sense to move the light curve model to after section 4, since 4 motivates 3.2.


Section 4.3:
My biggest concern with this analysis is reliance on the chi^2 from Gaia to assess binarity. This is not the suggested path from Gaia, as it is subject to a noise model Gaia now knows has issues. For example, nearly 100% of mid/late M dwarfs have a high chi^2 (and a large excess astrometric noise), but clearly they are not all binaries. This is (partially) because of a color-term in the PSF model that was not initially understood. Similarly, almost all bright stars have a large RUWE, as do the bluest stars. The authors correctly use RUWE, the suggested method, but the RUWE analysis is less convincing and clearly the authors are leaning on the chi^2.
A good reference on this would be Belokurov et al. 2020, which shows what kinds of binaries RUWE can and cannot detect. This binary might simply be too tight to create an astrometric signal (in which case the RUWE makes sense). The typical cutoff for binarity is a RUWE of ~1.4, see Rizzuto et al. 2018, Ziegler et al. 2019, Pearce et al. 2020, among many others.
I suggest removing the chi^2 analysis. If the authors want to keep it, they need to argue why it is a more meaningful metric than RUWE, and attempt to account for color and other parameters that impact chi^2.

Section 4.4:
Need a period between velocities and Further.

Section 5.2:
That clear offset at (Pl-Ps)/Ps doesn't seem like a coincidence, and the paper reads like the authors agree, but couldn't explain it. I'm not sure I can help much here, although it is interesting. Could this be that both stars are dippers and one turns off while the other turns on by coincidence? Spots and hot-spot clusters can shift in phase as the magnetic fields realign, which creates a new spot cluster at the same period but a different phase. If it is circumstellar material, a tight binary could be shepherding the material, but I think the systems would have to be very tight for that, and it could not last for such a long time.
I think this can be assessed statistically; given the scatter in those points, the odds of lining up to any given line is small. But without a physical explanation this is hard to test. Probably this requires looking at many dippers as an ensemble. It is not required for the primary analysis of this paper, so I will defer to the authors if they want to dig deeper on this.

Section 5.3.2:
The difference between the fraction of transient flux dip stars and the binary fraction is more significant than it appears to the authors. High mass ratio binaries would not be included, as they are too faint to detect the second period. Further, at the distance of Upper Sco (~150pc) and assuming Stauffer et al. 2017 would notice/separate two stars wider than a K2 pixel (4"), the presence of two periods would not include binaries wider than 600pc. Eyeballing the Winters et al. 2019 distribution suggests ~20% of binaries are beyond this. Stauffer et al. 2017 also probably checked against existing imaging data for obvious binaries down to 1-2", so likely even more are getting cut.


Section 5.4:
The authors conclude this subsection with a reasonable argument that this isn't a protoplanet. Does this same argument not rule out gas/debris at the Keplerian coronation radius? What could maintain such clouds for years/decades and then have them jump phase but at the same period? It's hard to do this if it is not somehow physically attached to the star in some what (e.g., spots can do this).
